Feature/2020 11 06 join 2020 (#636)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2020-11-06-JOIN-2020.md

---
layout: post
authors: [kevin_van_den_abeele]
title: "JOIN 2020"
image: /img/2020-11-06-JOIN-2020/banner.jpg
tags: [JOIN, Ordina, JWorks, JWorks Open Innovation and Networking, talks, learning, conference, meeting, online, agile, tech, development, AWS, Amazon, Azure, Microsoft, Scrum, AI, ML, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence]
category: IoT
comments: true
---
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lightbox2/2.9.0/css/lightbox.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap-grid-only@1.0.0/bootstrap.css" />

<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/3.2.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lightbox2/2.9.0/js/lightbox.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap-grid-only@1.0.0/index.min.js"></script>

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Our speakers](#our-speakers)

> 3. [Tech Track](#tech-track)

Reviewer: 3-6 have broken links.

  - Ghelamco alert: Combining Raspberry Pi and AWS Cloud to get the best of both worlds - Bas Moorkens
  - Infrastructure is code with the AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK) - Kevin Azijn
  - Moving a complex and slow deployment pipeline to a streamlined and lightning fast Azure deployment - Pieter Vincken
  - Some pitfalls of AI - Joachim Ganseman

- An agile and business track also consisting of 4 sessions:
  - Dancing the BOSSA nova – how to bring a culture of experimentation into your company - Edwin Burgers & Maryse Meinen
  - The power of Kata - Michaëla Broeckx
  - Failure Culture – what it means to fail and how we can gain value from it - Anke Maerz
  - Why don't you get my code? - Francis Laleman

Read and watch on down below as we go over each speaker and talk.

## Our speakers

Like any event we depend on our contributors, in our case being our speakers.
Without them our event would not be possible, they provide us with the awesome and interesting sessions.

### Bas Moorkens

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><img alt="Bas Moorkens" src="/img/2020-11-06-JOIN-2020/speakers/bas-moorkens.jpg" width="auto" height="auto" target="_blank" class="image fit"></td>

> <td style="vertical-align:top;"><p>Bas is a cloud platform architect at Ordina Belgium who is fascinated by aws, containers and pipeline automation. He started off as a Java full stack developer but got more and more into the devOps and cloud world where he currently spends most of his time.</p><p>Company: JWorks - Ordina Belgium</p></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p>Bas is a cloud platform architect at Ordina Belgium who is fascinated by AWS, containers and pipeline automation. He started off as a Java full stack developer but got more and more into the DevOps and cloud world where he currently spends most of his time.</p><p>Company: JWorks - Ordina Belgium</p></td>
```

Having spent so much time in the Middle East and in the Indian subcontinent, I have now been turning my attention to Japan - studying TPS, Lean and Kata, but also the less obvious, such as ikigai, Taoism and Zen Buddhism, or the shuhari learning process in traditional Japanese craftsmanship.
Most probably, however, you will find me in the garden.</p><p>Company: Agile &amp; Learning Beyond Borders</p></td>
<td><img alt="Francis Laleman" src="/img/2020-11-06-JOIN-2020/speakers/francis-laleman.jpg" width="auto" height="auto" target="_blank" class="image fit"></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### I would like to thank our speakers once more from the whole of Ordina for the interesting sessions they have given.

<br/><br/>

## Tech Track sessions

### Session 1 - Ghelamco alert: Combining Raspberry Pi and AWS Cloud to get the best of both worlds - Bas Moorkens

<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-bottom: 55%;">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Iach3_dh83g" width="100%" height="100%;" style="position: absolute; left: 0; top: 0; bottom: 0; right: 0;"></iframe>
</div>

> In this talk we will present our Ghelamco alerting solution which runs on a raspberry PI and is empowered by the AWS cloud to provide additional capabilities.

Reviewer: I would personally add another break after each YouTube video because the video and text are somewhat glued together now:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1644089/98245257-f14bb180-1f70-11eb-9906-7aa503aa81a6.png)

> In this talk we will present our Ghelamco alerting solution which runs on a raspberry PI and is empowered by the AWS cloud to provide additional capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this talk we will present our Ghelamco alerting solution which runs on a Raspberry Pi and is empowered by the AWS cloud to provide additional capabilities.
```

Provisioning cloud applications can be a challenging process that requires you to perform manual actions, write custom scripts, maintain templates, or learn domain-specific languages.
AWS CDK uses the familiarity and expressive power of programming languages for modeling your applications.
It provides you with high-level components that pre-configure cloud resources with proven defaults, so you can build cloud applications without needing to be an expert.
AWS CDK provisions your resources in a safe, repeatable manner through AWS CloudFormation.
It also enables you to compose and share your own custom components that incorporate your organization's requirements, helping you start new projects faster.  

### Session 3 - Moving a complex and slow deployment pipeline to a streamlined and lightning fast Azure deployment - Pieter Vincken

<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-bottom: 55%;">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uz4bs9EQA0E" width="100%" height="100%;" style="position: absolute; left: 0; top: 0; bottom: 0; right: 0;"></iframe>
</div>

> Talks about how to automated application platform deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to automate application platform deployments.
```

Something that even smells like success!
This talk analyses different projects, their main impediments and success or failure factors, includes some interactive parts - and in the end (hopefully) leaves us with some renewed courage to face the failures in our lives... to gain value from them.  

### Session 4 - Why don't you get my code? - Francis Laleman

**Video under review - will be added soon!**

This is a playful, interactive session on the concept of "code" - as a formal, grammar-and-syntax-driven substitute for "meaning".
We all know that code is the central edifice of what it is that we are doing - at work, and, perhaps, even in life.
But do we fully understand the profound relationship between code and meaning? Do we really grasp how code, in all its formality and conventions, both pins us down into the confinement of "knowns", and has the power to liberate us from what is already known and drive us forward?
After this session, expect to be aware of more than just "code", and to be able to understand "meaning", in life and work, through a variety of grammars and syntaxes, more diverse than ever imagined.  

## In the spotlight - Ghelamco alert

> This talk features the awesome Internship project by Kevin Govearts which is a shining example of and end-to-end integrated IoT project.

Reviewer: I would rephrase it as followed because "this talk" gives the appearance that it refers to the talk above.
```suggestion
The awesome internship project by Kevin Govaerts is a shining example of an end-to-end integrated IoT project.
```

It touches a lot of interesting technologies and integrates everything very nicely and includes managing a Raspberry Pi device via AWS.

The project provides a solution to our parking problem at our Ghelamco office in Ghent.
Since the parking lot needs to be vacated whenever there is a "home" soccer match or we get a hefty fine per car that remains, we needed an automated solution to warn the people at the office.
This project does just that, end-to-end.
It reads & scrapes the data and determines when the matches are and commands the Raspberry Pi to light up the alarm light.

It uses at least 10 different AWS services and the usage of AWS Greengrass allows you to deploy production ready applications to edge devices without having to manage it yourself.

> I wont go into all the technical details since you should absolutely read Bas and Kevin's their [excellent blog post](https://ordina-jworks.github.io/cloud/2020/09/28/ghelamco-alert.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} about the project!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I won't go into all the technical details since you should absolutely read Bas and Kevin's [excellent blog post](https://ordina-jworks.github.io/cloud/2020/09/28/ghelamco-alert.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} about the project!
```

Machine Learning and AI are being portrayed as the silver bullet, as the thing every project needs.
However developing a Machine Learning model/system is not as straightforward as one might think.

This talk goes into detail about what can go "wrong" and what the common pitfalls are when developing such a system.
Datasets can be a tricky matter to fully grasp and get right.
Hidden correlations or biases make that our trained models can often show the same discriminatory tendencies like normal people do.
Removing biases from a dataset is hard, very hard.
Even if you think you are not biased, please go on and go over [the list of cognitive biases](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cognitive_biases){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

Removing certain data fields/variables from the dataset in order to prevent biases can have little to no effect due to the fact that there are hidden variables.
The talk explains this with a great example, when a model has a gender bias one might think that removing the gender from the dataset might solve the issue.
This might not work since other variables might indirectly propagate the same gender bias.

> If the model handles text the gender is actually also encoded in the vocabulary and way of speaking, it is very different between women and men.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the model handles text, the gender is actually also encoded in the vocabulary and way of speaking.
It is very different between women and men.
```

Machine Learning models are vulnerable to attacks:

- Data poisoning attacks
  - When people can enter data or find a way to add data to a source that is being used to train a model.
  - Verifying and cleaning data is very important to prevent this!
- Adversarial attacks

>   - Changing a few pixels in an image might throw of the model completely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Changing a few pixels in an image might throw off the model completely.
```

  - Because the training dataset is so large the model becomes sensitive to small and very particular changes in the input.

These attacks makes using these models for very critical things like autonomous driving tricky and potentially dangerous.
While this problem is not fully solved yet, the field is advancing at an extremely high tempo, so these type of problems pose less and less of an issue.

Machine Learning can be, and is used, for less legal & nice practices:

- Spear & laser phishing
  - Phishing attacks that use very specific data collected on the target to believe extremely believable phishing vectors.
- Deepfakes
  - Fake news becomes harder and harder to detect because images and even videos can be altered.
  Faces can be swapped, even audio can be changed to match the voice of someone else.
<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-bottom: 55%;">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nsuAQcvafCs" width="100%" height="100%;" style="position: absolute; left: 0; top: 0; bottom: 0; right: 0;"></iframe>
</div>

> - GPT3

Reviewer: Would also add a break here to have more space between the video and text.

  - This model can write full texts, code, layouts.
  Often the text that is generated makes more sense than anything a certain American president would say.
<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-bottom: 55%;">
    <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_x9AwxfjxvE" width="100%" height="100%;" style="position: absolute; left: 0; top: 0; bottom: 0; right: 0;"></iframe>
</div>

> - Recommendation engines

Reviewer: Also a break here.

  - Watch a certain type of video, get suggested more of the same but more extreme.
  This enables a feedback loop, the type of suggested content is in your area of interest just a tad more extreme/strange/unbelievable, so you keep watching, and the next suggestions rinse and repeat the cycle.
  This is a big issue since it has a tendency to propagate extremes.
  What you see is not what other people see, it is curated for you by your past consumed content.
  More than ever it is extremely important to check facts and do some digging on independent sites/new sources.

## Resources

- [JOIN 2020 website](https://ordina-jworks.github.io/join/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
- [Tech Track playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgWyY-g33NlWg7rStHmTYPiN_0yJd4PxQ){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

> - [Agile & Business playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgWyY-g33NlUR9F2PJ1h3bkd0cxSr4xab){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

Reviewer: There is one deleted video in the playlist?

Author: That's Francis's video, I'll see if I can fix this
